# Sentiment-Analysis-for-Mental-Health-Detection
In recent years, student mental health has emerged as a critical issue in higher education. Research found that in the UK, 39% of students experienced a decline in their mental health after starting university. This not only significantly influences students' lives but also imposes financial burdens on society due to healthcare costs. According to an NHS report in 2022, £12 billion was spent on mental health services in UK, accounting for around 8% of their total budget, and this spending has increased in recent years. In practice, schools implement various solutions to support students, such as providing comprehensive mental health services. However, the challenge is they do not have the ability to monitor students continuously, and mental health issues often lack obvious symptoms. This highlights the importance of developing tools that can detect which students and when they are facing problems at an early stage on a large scale, so that we can provide a support timely.
The rise of social media platforms, such as Facebook has provided a great opportunity to observe and understand human emotions on a large scale. This is because these platforms same as a digital diary for many users. They can share their feelings, and experiences every single day. If we can learn writing patterns from these information, we can develop an early detection system for mental health problem. Based on this foundation, I propose a method using the BERT model to solve the problem mentioned above, which is a state-of-the-art transformer-based machine learning model in natural language. The wide adoption of BERT in NLP led me to choose BERT instead of older approaches.
